CHAPTERS XXI and XXII of the Book of Luke in the King James Version, also called the
Authorized Version.
CHAPTER XXI And he looked up and saw the rich men
their gifts into the treasury. And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two
mites. And he said, Of a truth, I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more
than they all. For all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offerings of God,
but she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had.
And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said,
As for these things which ye behold, the days will come in which there shall not be left one
stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. And they asked him, saying, Master,
but when shall these things be, and what sign will there be when these things shall come to
pass? And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived, for many shall come in my name,
saying, I am Christ, and the time draweth near. Go ye not therefore after them. But when ye shall
hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified. For these things must first come to pass,
but the end is not by and by. Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against Nation,
and Kingdom against Kingdom. And great earthquakes shall be in diverse places,
and famines, and pestilences. And fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven. But
before all these they shall lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the
synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.
And it shall turn to you for a testimony. Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before
what ye shall answer. For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not
be able to gainsay nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by parents and brethren, and kinsfolk's
and friends. And some of you shall they cause to be put to death. And ye shall be hated of all men
for my name's sake. But there shall not an hair of your head perish. In your patience possess ye
your souls. And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the
desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Judea flee to the mountains. And let
them which are in the midst of it depart out. And let not them that are in the countries enter
there into. For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days. For there
shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people. And they shall fall by the edge of
sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations. And Jerusalem shall be trodden down of
the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. And there shall be signs in the sun,
and in the moon, and in the stars, and upon the earth distress of nations with perplexity,
the sea, and the waves roaring, men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after
those things which are coming on the earth. For the powers of heaven shall be shaken.
And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads,
for your redemption draweth nigh. And he spake to them a parable,
Behold the fig tree and all the trees. When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own
selves that summer is now nigh at hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass,
know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not
pass away till all be fulfilled. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.
And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting
and drunkenness and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.
For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Watch ye therefore and pray always that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things
that shall come to pass and to stand before the Son of Man. And in the daytime he was teaching
in the temple, and at night he went out and abode in the mount that is called the Mount of Olives.
And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple for to hear him.
Chapter 22
Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover.
And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people.
Then entered Satan into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve.
And he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains how he might betray him unto
them. And they were glad and covenanted to give him money, and he promised and sought opportunity
to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread,
when the Passover must be killed. And he sent Peter and John, saying,
Go and prepare us the Passover that we may eat.
And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare?
And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you,
bearing a pitcher of water, follow him into the house where he entereth in.
And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The master saith unto thee,
Where is the guest chamber where I shall eat the Passover with my disciples?
And he shall show you a large upper room furnished, there make ready.
And they went and found as he had said unto them, and they made ready the Passover.
And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him.
And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer,
for I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves,
for I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come.
And he took bread, and gave thanks, and break it, and gave it unto them, saying,
This is my body which is given for you, this do in remembrance of me.
Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood,
which is shed for you. But behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table.
And truly the son of man goeth as it was determined, but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed.
And they began to inquire among themselves which of them it was that should do this thing.
And there was also a strife among them which of them should be accounted the greatest.
And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they that exercise
authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so, but he that is greatest among
you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief, as he that doth serve it. For whether
is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth, is not he that sitteth at meat,
but I am among you as he that serveth. Ye are they which have continued with me
in my temptations, and I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me,
that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the
of Israel. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you,
that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not,
and when thou art converted strengthen thy brethren.
And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both into prison and to death.
And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day,
before that thou shalt trice deny that thou knowest me.
And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse and scrip and shoes,
lacked ye anything? And they said, Nothing. Then said he unto them, But now he that hath a
purse, let him take it, likewise his scrip, and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment
and buy one, for I say unto you, that this that is written must be yet accomplished in me.
And he was reckoned among the transgressors, for the things concerning me have an end.
And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough.
And he came out and went as he was wont to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples also followed
him. And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation.
And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast and kneeled down and prayed, saying,
Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me, nevertheless not my will but thine be done.
And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony,
he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the
ground. And when he rose up from prayer and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping
for sorrow. And said unto them, Why sleep ye, rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.
And while he yet spake, behold, a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve,
went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas,
betrayest thou the son of man with a kiss? When they which were about him saw what would follow,
they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? And one of them smote the servant of the
fire. And he touched his ear, and healed him. Then Jesus said unto the chief priests,
and captains of the temple, and elders which were come to him, Be ye come out as against a thief
with swords and staves? When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against
me. But this is your hour, and the hour of darkness. Then took they him, and led him,
and brought him into the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off. And when they had
kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them.
But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said,
This man was also with him. And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said,
Man, I am not. And about the space of one hour after, another confidently affirmed, saying,
Of a truth this fellow also was with him, for he is a Galilean. And Peter said, Man,
I know not what thou sayest. And immediately while he yet spake, the cock crow.
And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord,
how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice.
And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. And the man that held Jesus mocked him,
and smote him. And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him,
saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee? And many other things blasphemously spake they
against him. And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests
and the scribes came together, and led him into their counsel, saying, Art thou the Christ? Tell
us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, he will not believe. And if I also ask you, he will not
answer me, nor let me go. Hereafter shall the Son of Man sit on the right hand of the power of God.
Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am.
And they said, What need we any further witness? For we ourselves have heard of his own mouth.
End of chapter 22 of the Gospel According to St. Luke in the King James Version,
also known as the Authorized Version.